So what is functional programming functional programming is all about separation of concerns which object
oriented programming does as well.
Right.
It's all about packaging our code into separate chunks so that everything's well organized in each part
of our code and each part is organized in a way that makes sense based on functionality.
So when we say separation of concerns we mean each part concerned the self with one thing that it's
good at.
We remember in our object oriented programming section how we had classes to divide up attributes and
methods of let's say a wizard class and an archer class and functional programming has this idea as
well of separating concerns but they also separate data and functions.
That's how a functional programmer views the world instead of combining methods and attributes.
We separate them up because they're two separate things.
There's data and this data gets interacted and acted upon but we're not going to combine both data and
functions as one piece in an object like we saw with object oriented programming.
Now there is no correct definition for what is and isn't functional but generally functional languages
have an emphasis on simplicity where data and functions are concerned because in most functional programming
paradigms we don't have this idea of classes and objects instead functions operate on well-defined data
structures like lists and dictionaries that we saw rather than belonging that data structure to an object.
But at the end of the day the goal of a functional programming paradigm is the same as object oriented
paradigm.
It's the idea of making our code clean and understandable easy to extend that is we can grow our code
and make it better and better and have others come and extend our code.
It's easier to maintain.
It keeps our code dry so that we are not repeating ourself as well as keeping our code memory efficient
because we're not storing information all over the place.
Now when we come to functional programming we have a very important pillar.
And unlike object oriented programming where we had those four pillars of encapsulation abstraction
inheritance and polymorphism.
If you want to break things down in functional programming it all comes down to this concept of pure
functions.
And this is something that we're going to explore over the next couple of videos.
But the idea here is that there is a separation between data of a program and the behavior of a program.
So let's find out more about pure functions.
What did they mean.
What are they.